# Golomb coding

Command-line tool that encodes and decodes content using the Golomb coding algorithm.

## Installing

Make sure that you have the Ruby's environment installed

### Installing via Ruby Gems

    $ gem install golomb-cli

After installing you have access to the command `golomb` on your terminal.

### Manual installation

Download the project code and execute the following commands. Make sure that you are on the project directory.

    $ bundle install

This command will install all dependencies. After installed you can access the binary located in `bin/golomb`. Execute the binary based on the examples below.

## Usage

The tool has the commands `encode` and `decode`.

Use the help option to view all parameters allowed.

    $ golomb --help

### Enconding

The example below encodes a text file using the divisor 10 and saves the encoded data into a file named my_output. The verbose option prints the symbols table.

    $ golomb --divisor 10 --output my_output encode --verbose my_file.txt

You can pass a text stream to encode instead of a file.

    $ golomb --divisor 10 --output my_output encode --verbose "My text goes here"

Output generated by the encode command with the verbose option:

    +---------+------------------+
    |        Symbol table        |
    +---------+------------------+
    | Symbol  | Encode           |
    +---------+------------------+
    | M (77)  | 111111101101     |
    | y (121) | 1111111111110001 |
    |   (32)  | 1110010          |
    | t (116) | 1111111111101100 |
    | e (101) | 11111111110001   |
    | x (120) | 1111111111110000 |
    | t (116) | 1111111111101100 |
    |   (32)  | 1110010          |
    | g (103) | 11111111110011   |
    | o (111) | 111111111110001  |
    | e (101) | 11111111110001   |
    | s (115) | 111111111110101  |
    |   (32)  | 1110010          |
    | h (104) | 11111111110100   |
    | e (101) | 11111111110001   |
    | r (114) | 111111111110100  |
    | e (101) | 11111111110001   |
    +---------+------------------+

    INPUT HEX:
    0x4d 0x79 0x20 0x74 0x65 0x78 0x74 0x20 0x67 0x6f 0x65 0x73 0x20 0x68 0x65 0x72 0x65

    OUTPUT HEX:
    0xfed 0xfff1 0x72 0xffec 0x3ff1 0xfff0 0xffec 0x72 0x3ff3 0x7ff1 0x3ff1 0x7ff5 0x72 0x3ff4 0x3ff1 0x7ff4 0x3ff1

### Decoding

The example below decodes the previously encoded file.

    $ golomb --divisor 10 decode my_output


